---
layout: post
title: Sample text
---

######from:

###The Evolution of Language
#####W. Tecumseh Fitch
#####2010, Cambridge University Press

-----

######Page 162 - 163

#####4.6.2 Non-vocal traditions

Non-vocal forms of social learning are often seen as more relevant to human cultural phenomena like toolmaking and foraging techniques. Again, the clearest examples come from non-primates: bluehead wrasses have been shown to learn their mating sites and migration routes from others, and these traditional routes outlast any individual fish: when entire groups are transferred from one reef to another, they devise different routes than their predecessors (Warner, 1988). Blackbirds fooled into thinking a conspecific was attacking a stuffed member of an unknown species went on to attack it themselves, and transferred this learned habit in a transmission chain over six individuals (Curio et al., 1978). Many other examples of this sort are provided in Bonner (1983), and there can be little doubt that many species are able to pass learned traditions down over the generations.

Nonetheless, human culture involves far more than simple transmission, because humans not only remember and re-enact previous behaviors, but also can *improve* upon these past performances (Tomasello, 1990; Boyd and Richerson, 1996). Human culture is like a ratchet wrench, always moving in the direction of improvement. In recognition of this fact, students of animal social learning have sought to clarify the mechanisms that are needed to attain **cumulative cultural change**. Central to these mechanisms is **imitation**, which is operationally defined as the production of *novel* acts in response to seeing another individual perform very nearly the same act. If the "copier" previously produced this act (that is, if the act was in its pre-existing behavioral repertoire), then the term "imitation" is unjustified, and various other types of social learning are invoked (e.g. "local enhancement," where the observation of the place of the action increases the chance of copying, or "social facilitation," when observing some act &mdash;eating, resting&mdash; increases the probability of that action in the observer). By this widely accepted definition of imitation (Galef, 1988; Whiten and Ham, 1992), imitation is rare among animals. Reconsidering such classic cases of "imitation" in monkeys as the potato washing of Japanese macaques, combined with their own laboratory experiments with food washing and tool use, Visalberghi and Fragaszy (1990) concluded that imitation is infrequent or non-existent in macaques and capuchins. More recent data demonstrate simple forms of imitation in marmosets by this definition, for example removing a lid from a container (Voelkel and Huber, 2000). But complex motor imitation such as tool use remains undocumented in monkeys.

In apes, there is far stronger evidence of imitation. Although Kellogg and Kellogg (1933), who raised a baby chimpanzee and human side-by-side, already observed that humans' imitative abilities are far more developed than chimpanzees', they saw many examples of novel behaviors apparently learned by observation, as did Hayes (1951) with Viki. Both field observations (Whiten et al., 1999; Van Schaik et al., 2003) and laboratory experiments (Whiten et al., 2005) demonstrate that great apes can reliably transmit traditions over multiple generations, leading to what are termed "chimpanzee cultures." Nonetheless, careful experiments suggest that differences remain in the style of imitation: chimpanzees tend to "imitate" the *goal* of the action (sometimes termed "emulation") while children often slavishly imitate the action itself (Tomasello, 1990). The capacity of human infants and children (Piaget, 1962; Meltzoff and Moor, 1977; Meltzoff, 1988; Gergely et al., 2002) to imitate motor actions (as well as vocalizations) remains unparalleled in its richness, despite clear homologs in ape behavior.

Thus, as for language itself, the question is not whether animals (or chimpanzees) have "culture," but *which* of the various mechanisms involved in social learning and culture in humans are shared with other animals. At present there can be little doubt that human culture differs sharply from anything known in the animal kingdom in its cumulativity (Richerson and Boyd, 2005). Psychologist Michael Tomasello has cogently argued, on the basis of abundant experimental data (Tomasello and Call, 1997; Tomasello et al., 2003), that the advanced social/cultural intelligence of humans (particularly the capacity to share intentional states between individuals) is the primary difference between humans and other apes (Tomasello, 1999; Tomasello et al., 2005). But it remains unclear whether this ability, and human cumulative culture more generally, can be disentangled from the possession of language itself.

In summary, many animals pass "traditions" over multiple generations, creating a second non-genetic form of inheritance parallel to human culture. The existence of rapid cultural change, independent of environmental and genetic change, has interesting and important evolutionary implications (cf. Odling-Smee et al., 2003). But language, as it exists in humans, allows a degree of cultural cumulativity that is unparalleled in any nonhuman species (Laland et al., 2001).